# games theory

### question
```
Pruning game trees is a way of reducing the search space.

One way to reduce the maximum depth of search is to use heuristic evaluation instead of actual utility.

After alpha-beta pruning, assuming that some pruning takes place, the (utility) value of the tree improves.

Reordering of subtrees in a game tree can change the amount of pruning.

Reordering of subtrees in a game tree can change the (utility) value of the tree (for either Max or Min).

The time complexity of alpha-beta pruning is at most as large as the complexity of computing the utility value of the root of the tree.
```

### answer 1 reasoning
- True. Alpha-beta cuts off branches that do not effect final decision, reducing number of nodes evaluated.

### answer 2 reasoning
- True. heursitic evalatuions allow algorithm to estimate the utility of non-terminal nodes, allowing to stop search shallower rather than searching terminal nodes (max depth)

### answer 3 reasoning
- False. Alpha-beta does not alter utility. Only removes unnecessary evaluation. Optimal moves still stay the same as they would be without pruning.

### answer 4 reasoning
- True. Works from left to right. Effectivness relies on heaviliy on ordering of nodes.

### answer 5 reasoning
- False. Final decision remain consistent regardless of node order. Only pruning effected by node order.

### answer 6 reasoning
- True. Alpha-beta reduces the number of nodes evaluated compared to normal minimax. Therefore, time complexity will not exceed that of utility value of the root node using minimax without pruning.





# background
- Game Tree: Reprentation of all possible moves in a game. Each node is a state, edges are the moves.
- Minimax algorithem: Determine optimal move for a player, assuming oppoents plays optimally. Minimizing the possible loss for a worst case scenario.
  - Max Nodes: Player trying to maximize score
  - Min Nodes: Player trying to minimize the players score

- Alpha-beta pruning
  - Optimizes the minimax by removing branches that do not affect the final decison, thus reducing the number of node evaluated
  - Alpha: Best value the maximize currently can guarantee at that level or above
  - Beta: BEst value that the minimizer currently guarantee at that level or above
  - Pruning condition: alpha >= beta then further exploration of that branch is unnecessary

- Heuristic Evaluation Function
  - Usage: for games with large spaces, impractical to evaluate every possible move
  - Heuristic evaluation: Estimates value of game state without exhaustive search. Allows to cut off search at certain depth.
