# question:
Which of the following statements about depth-first search is correct? In all the statements assume that the generic search algorithm is being used with a DFS frontier on a finite directed graph and that the frontier does not do pruning (i.e. it does not keep track of expanded nodes).

Note the following terminology used in the statements.

- Phrases such as "edge ordering" and "order of children" refer to the order in which the outgoing arcs of a node appear in the list returned by the method outgoing_arcs.
- An algorithm halting means that it stops (terminates) after some time. In other words, it does not get into an infinite loop.

# options:
Question 5 Select one:

The order of children (edges) does not have any effect on whether or not depth-first search halts.

Depth-first search goes into an infinite loop on any finite directed graph that contains a cycle.

If for a given graph, DFS halts with every possible edge ordering, then we can conclude that the order of edges does not have any effect on whether or not the algorithm finds a solution on that graph.

The order of children (edges) does not have any effect on what solution is found by depth-first search.

# logic and reasoning:
### first statement
- the first statement is true.
  - UPDATE: statement is false. Because as stated above we do not keep track of expanded or visited nodes. Meaning if we hit a cycle we cannot get out.

### second statement
- what is a cycle
  - A cycle is a loop of distinct edges and vertices where the traversal starts and ends at the same vertex, without repeating any edges or vertices, except for the starting and ending vertex.
- what is the dfs backtracking
  - DFS Backtracking occurs when the algorithm reaches a dead-end, meaning there are no more unvisited children or adjacent nodes to explore from the current node. At this point, the algorithm backtracks to the previously visited node, checking if it has any unvisited neighbors. This process continues until it finds a node with unvisited neighbors, at which point the search resumes by exploring those neighbors.
- the second statement is false because of the backtracking prevent getting stuck.
  - UPDATE: statement is still false, because the ordering of the nodes means that you find a solution before entering the cycle or the cycle is not reachable because its a disconnected component.

### third statement
- the third statement is true as this means that the goal node is found in every ordering or that there is no solution and it simply explores the entire graph and it contains no cycles and thus does not get stuck

### fourth statement
- the fourth statement is false. Because the goal node path would change depending on the ordering of the nodes and there may be multiple goal nodes meaning distinct solutions.

### cheat notes
- if in doubt, the largest answer with the most description most likely to be the correct one