# question
Consider the explicit graph in the previous question and select the correct statement(s).

### graph
```
ExplicitGraph(
    nodes={'A', 'B', 'C', 'D', 'G'},
    estimates={'A':5, 'B':5, 'C':9, 'D':1, 'G':0},
    edge_list=[('A','B',2), ('A','C',3), ('B','D',5), ('C','D',10), ('D','G',3)],
    starting_nodes=['A'],
    goal_nodes={'G'},
    )
```
# possible solutions
Select one or more:
    A-star with pruning would have produced a non-optimal solution (path to goal).
    
    A-star expanded as many paths on this graph as LCFS would have.
    
    The heuristic function is admissible.
    
    LCFS would have produced an optimal solution for this graph.
    
    The heuristic function is consistent.

# logic and reasoning
- solution 1
  - not true. Running through the trace with pruning does not change the outcome and I assume a* produces an optimal solution
  - Does a* always produce optimal solution?
    - If the heuristic is admissible and consistent, A* always produces the optimal solution, efficiently.
    - If the heuristic is admissible but not consistent, A* can still find the optimal solution, but it might need to revisit nodes, making it less efficient.

- solution 2
  - not true. Running through the race without heuristic function does result in more paths being expanded
    - Assuming the - means expanded
    - Is this universally true for lcfs and a*?
      - if the heuristic function is admissible and consistent

- solution 3
  - true, given the solution is optimal the heuristic is admissible. As an admissible heuristic always gives an optimal solution. A heuristic is admissible if it does not over-estimates. Meaning the estimated value is less than or equal to the actual value. Conservative rather than optimistic.
    - UPDATE did working by hand and is admissible

- solution 4
  - true. Both produce the same final path.
  - Can this be found out by not simply doing the algorithm?
    - Yes check for non-negative edge costs, must be able to reach end node from start node. Strongly connected.

- solution 5
  - true. Because I have said other answers that rely on it.
    - UPDATE did working by hand and is consistent


- How to check manually for admissibility and consistency


### admissible
- node A
- heuristic value = 5
- shortest path = ABDG with value of 10
- admissible as estimate less than actual value

- node B
- h val = 4
- shortest path = BDG w/val of 8
- admissible

- node C
- h val = 9
- shortest path = CDG w/val of 13
- admissible

- node D
- h val = 1
- shortest path = DG w/val of 3
- admissible

- node G
- h val = 0
- shortest path = itself w/val of 0
- admissible

### consistency
- edge ab
- edge cost = 2
- h val a = 5
- h val b = 5
- consistent as heuristic value of a is less than the path cost and heuristic value of b combined
- 5 <= (5+2)

- edge ac
- edge cost = 3
- h val a = 5
- h val c = 9
- consistent
- 5 <= 3 + 9

- edge bd
- edge cost = 5
- h val b = 5
- h val d = 1
- consistent
- 5 <= 5 + 1

- edge cd
- edge cost = 10
- h val c = 9
- h val d = 1
- consistent
- 9 <= 10 + 1

- edge dg
- edge cost = 3
- h val d = 1
- h val g = 0
- consistent 
- 1 <= 3
